# golang-getting-started

Getting Started tutorials for Go

## Tutorial: Get started with Go

In this tutorial, you'll get a brief introduction to Go programming. Along the way, you will:

- Install Go (if you haven't already).
- Write some simple "Hello, world" code.
- Use the go command to run your code.
- Use the Go package discovery tool to find packages you can use in your own code.
- Call functions of an external module.

### Install Go

- [Download and install](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- Install via Brew on macOS:

``` bash

# output a list of what you can install
brew search golang

# Go ahead and install it
brew install golang

# check the version of Go
go version

# to update Go, you can run the following commands
brew update
brew upgrade golang

```

### Write some code

Create a hello directory for your first Go source code.

``` BASH
mkdir hello
cd hello
```

In your text editor, create a file hello.go in which to write your code.

``` Go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}
```

Run your code to see the greeting.

``` BASH
$ go run hello.go

Hello, World!
```

``` BASH
$ go help

```

### Call code in an external package

When you need your code to do something that might have been implemented by someone else, you can look for a package that has functions you can use in your code.

- Visit [pkg.go.dev](https://pkg.go.dev) and search for a "quote" package.
- Locate and click the `rsc.io/quote` package in search results (if you see rsc.io/quote/v3, ignore it for now).

``` Go
package main

import "fmt"

import "rsc.io/quote"

func main() {
    fmt.Println(quote.Go())
}
```

- Put your own code in a module for tracking dependencies.

``` BASH
go mod init hello
```

- Run your code to see the message generated by the function you are calling.

``` BASH
$ go run hello.go

go: finding module for package rsc.io/quote
go: found rsc.io/quote in rsc.io/quote v1.5.2
Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.
```

## Tutorial: Create a Go module

In this [tutorial](https://golang.org/doc/tutorial/create-module) you'll create two modules.

- The first is a library which is intended to be imported by other libraries or applications.
- The second is a caller application which will use the first.

This tutorial's sequence includes six brief topics that each illustrate a different part of the language.

- Create a module -- Write a small module with functions you can call from another module.
- Call your code from another module -- Import and use your new module.
- Return and handle an error -- Add simple error handling.
- Return a random greeting -- Handle data in slices (Go's dynamically-sized arrays).
- Return greetings for multiple people -- Store key/value pairs in a map.
- Add a test -- Use Go's built-in unit testing features to test your code.
- Compile and install the application -- Compile and install your code locally.

### Create a module

``` BASH
# Create a greetings directory for your Go module source code.
# This is where you'll write your module code.
mkdir greetings
cd greetings

# Start your module using the go mod init command to create a go.mod file.
go mod init github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings
```

Create a file in which to write your code and call it `greetings.go` .

``` Go
package greetings

import "fmt"

// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) string {
    // Return a greeting that embeds the name in a message.
    message := fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
    return message
}
```

This is the first code for your module.  It returns a greeting to any caller that asks for one.

In this code, you:

- Declare a greetings package to collect related functions.
- Implement a Hello function to return the greeting.
- This function takes a name parameter whose type is string, and returns a string.
- In Go, a function whose name starts with a capital letter can be called by a function not in the same package. This is known in Go as an [exported name](https://tour.golang.org/basics/3).
- Declare a message variable to hold your greeting.
- In Go, the := operator is a shortcut for declaring and initializing a variable in one line (Go uses the value on the right to determine the variable's type).
- Taking the long way, you might have written this as:

``` Go
var message string
message = fmt. Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
```

- Use the `fmt` package's `Sprintf` function to create a greeting message.
- The first argument is a format string, and `Sprintf` substitutes the name parameter's value for the `%v` format verb.
- Inserting the value of the name parameter completes the greeting text.
- Return the formatted greeting text to the caller.

### Call your code from another module

Create a hello directory for your Go module source code. This is where you'll write your caller.

``` BASH
cd ..
mkdir hello
cd hello

touch hello.go
```

``` Go
package main

import (
    "fmt"

    "github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings"
)

func main() {
    // Get a greeting message and print it.
    message := greetings.Hello("Gladys")
    fmt.Println(message)
}
```

Create a new module for this hello package.

``` BASH
go mod init hello
```

Edit the hello module to use the unpublished greetings module.

``` Go
module hello

go 1.14

replace github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings => ../greetings
```

Here, the [replace directive](https://golang.org/ref/mod#tmp_15) tells Go to replace the module path (the URL example.com/greetings) with a path you specify. In this case, that's a greetings directory next to the hello directory.

In the hello directory, run go build to make Go locate the module and add it as a dependency to the go.mod file.

``` BASH
go build
```

Look at `go.mod` again to see the changes made by `go build` , including the `require` directive Go added.

``` Go
module hello

go 1.15

replace github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings => ../greetings

require github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000

```

In the hello directory, run the hello executable (created by go build) to confirm that the code works.

``` BASH
$ ./hello
Hi, Gladys. Welcome!
```

### Return and handle an error

Handling errors is an essential feature of solid code. In this section, you'll add a bit of code to return an error from the greetings module, then handle it in the caller.

There's no sense sending a greeting back if you don't know who to greet. Return an error to the caller if the name is empty. Copy the following code into greetings.go and save the file.

``` Go
package greetings

import (
    "errors"
    "fmt"
)

// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) (string, error) {
    // If no name was given, return an error with a message.
    if name == "" {
        return "", errors.New("empty name")
    }

    // If a name was received, return a value that embeds the name
    // in a greeting message.
    message := fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
    return message, nil
}
```

- Change the function so that it returns two values: a string and an error.
- Your caller will check the second value to see if an error occurred. (Any Go function can return [multiple values](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#multiple-returns).)
- Import the Go standard library errors package so you can use its [errors. New function](https://golang.org/pkg/errors/#example_New).
- Add an if statement to check for an invalid request and return an error if the request is invalid.
- The errors. New function returns an error with your message inside.
- Add nil (meaning no error) as a second value in the successful return.
- That way, the caller can see that the function succeeded.

In your hello/hello.go file, handle the error now returned by the Hello function, along with the non-error value.

``` Go
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "log"

    "github.com/russomi-labs/golang-getting-started/greetings"
)

func main() {
    // Set properties of the predefined Logger, including
    // the log entry prefix and a flag to disable printing
    // the time, source file, and line number.
    log.SetPrefix("greetings: ")
    log.SetFlags(0)

    // Request a greeting message.
    message, err := greetings.Hello("")
    // If an error was returned, print it to the console and
    // exit the program.
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }

    // If no error was returned, print the returned message
    // to the console.
    fmt.Println(message)
}
```

- Configure the [log package](https://golang.org/pkg/log/) to print the command name ("greetings: ") at the start of its log messages, without a time stamp or source file information.
- Assign both of the Hello return values, including the error, to variables.
- Change the Hello argument from Gladys's name to an empty string, so you can try out your error-handling code.
- Look for a non-nil error value. There's no sense continuing in this case.
- Use the functions in the standard library's log package to output error information.
- If you get an error, you use the log package's [Fatal function](https://pkg.go.dev/log?tab=doc#Fatal) to print the error and stop the program.

At the command line in the hello directory, run hello.go to confirm that the code works.

``` BASH
$ go run hello.go
greetings: empty name
exit status 1
```

### Return a random greeting

In this section, you'll change your code so that instead of returning a single greeting every time, it returns one of several predefined greeting messages.

- To do this, you'll use a Go [slice](https://blog.golang.org/slices-intro).
- A slice is like an array, except that it's dynamically sized as you add and remove items. It's one of the most useful types in Go.
- You'll add a small slice to contain three greeting messages, then have your code return one of the messages randomly.

In greetings/greetings.go, change your code so it looks like the following.

``` Go
// Gopackage greetings

import (
    "errors"
    "fmt"
    "math/rand"
    "time"
)

// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) (string, error) {
    // If no name was given, return an error with a message.
    if name == "" {
        return name, errors.New("empty name")
    }
    // Create a message using a random format.
    message := fmt.Sprintf(randomFormat(), name)
    return message, nil
}

// init sets initial values for variables used in the function.
func init() {
    rand.Seed(time.Now().UnixNano())
}

// randomFormat returns one of a set of greeting messages. The returned
// message is selected at random.
func randomFormat() string {
    // A slice of message formats.
    formats := []string{
        "Hi, %v. Welcome!",
        "Great to see you, %v!",
        "Hail, %v! Well met!",
    }

    // Return a randomly selected message format by specifying
    // a random index for the slice of formats.
    return formats[rand.Intn(len(formats))]
}

```

In this code, you:

- Add a randomFormat function that returns a randomly selected format for a greeting message.
- Note that randomFormat starts with a lowercase letter, making it accessible only to code in its own package (in other words, it's not exported).
- In randomFormat, declare a formats slice with three message formats. When declaring a slice, you omit its size in the brackets, like this: []string. This tells Go that the array underlying a slice can be dynamically sized.
- Use the [math/rand package](https://golang.org/pkg/math/rand/) to generate a random number for selecting an item from the slice.
- Add an [init function](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#init) to seed the rand package with the current time. Go executes init functions automatically at program startup, after global variables have been initialized.
- In Hello, call the randomFormat function to get a format for the message you'll return, then use the format and name value together to create the message.
- Return the message (or an error) as you did before.

At the command line, change to the hello directory, then run hello.go to confirm that the code works. Run it multiple times, noticing that the greeting changes.

Oh -- don't forget to add Gladys's name (or a different name, if you like) as an argument to the Hello function call in hello.go: greetings. Hello("Gladys")

``` BASH
$ go build
$ ./hello
Great to see you, Gladys!

$ ./hello
Hi, Gladys. Welcome!

$ ./hello
Hail, Gladys! Well met!

```

### Return greetings for multiple people

In the last changes you'll make to your module's code, you'll add support for getting greetings for multiple people in one request. In other words, you'll handle a multiple-value input and pair values with a multiple-value output.

To do this, you'll need to pass a set of names to a function that can return a greeting for each of them. Changing the Hello function's parameter from a single name to a set of names would change the function signature. If you had already published the greetings module and users had already written code calling Hello, that change would break their programs. In this situation, a better choice is to give new functionality a new name.

In the last code you'll add with this tutorial, update the code as if you've already published a version of the greetings module. Instead of changing the Hello function, add a new function Hellos that takes a set of names. Then, for the sake of simplicity, have the new function call the existing one. Keeping both functions in the package leaves the original for existing callers (or future callers who only need one greeting) and adds a new one for callers that want the expanded functionality.

In greetings/greetings.go, change your code so it looks like the following:

``` Go
package greetings

import (
    "errors"
    "fmt"
    "math/rand"
    "time"
)

// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) (string, error) {
    // If no name was given, return an error with a message.
    if name == "" {
        return name, errors.New("empty name")
    }
    // Create a message using a random format.
    message := fmt.Sprintf(randomFormat(), name)
    return message, nil
}

// Hellos returns a map that associates each of the named people
// with a greeting message.
func Hellos(names []string) (map[string]string, error) {
    // A map to associate names with messages.
    messages := make(map[string]string)
    // Loop through the received slice of names, calling
    // the Hello function to get a message for each name.
    for _, name := range names {
        message, err := Hello(name)
        if err != nil {
            return nil, err
        }
        // In the map, associate the retrieved message with
        // the name.
        messages[name] = message
    }
    return messages, nil
}

// Init sets initial values for variables used in the function.
func init() {
    rand.Seed(time.Now().UnixNano())
}

// randomFormat returns one of a set of greeting messages. The returned
// message is selected at random.
func randomFormat() string {
    // A slice of message formats.
    formats := []string{
        "Hi, %v. Welcome!",
        "Great to see you, %v!",
        "Hail, %v! Well met!",
    }

    // Return one of the message formats selected at random.
    return formats[rand.Intn(len(formats))]
}
```

In this code, you:

- Add a Hellos function whose parameter is a slice of names rather than a single name. Also, you change one of its return types from a string to a map so you can return names mapped to greeting messages.
- Have the new Hellos function call the existing Hello function. This leaves both functions in place.
- Create a messages [map](https://blog.golang.org/maps) to associate each of the received names (as a key) with a generated message (as a value). In Go, you initialize a map with the following syntax: `make(map[key-type]value-type)` . You have the Hello function return this map to the caller.
- Loop through the names your function received, checking that each has a non-empty value, then associate a message with each. In this for loop, range returns two values: the index of the current item in the loop and a copy of the item's value. You don't need the index, so you use the Go [blank identifier (an underscore)](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#blank) to ignore it.

In your `hello/hello.go` calling code, pass a slice of names, then print the contents of the names/messages map you get back.

In `hello.go` , change your code so it looks like the following.

``` Go
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "log"

    "example.com/greetings"
)

func main() {
    // Set properties of the predefined Logger, including
    // the log entry prefix and a flag to disable printing
    // the time, source file, and line number.
    log.SetPrefix("greetings: ")
    log.SetFlags(0)

    // A slice of names.
    names := []string{"Gladys", "Samantha", "Darrin"}

    // Request greeting messages for the names.
    messages, err := greetings.Hellos(names)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    // If no error was returned, print the returned map of
    // messages to the console.
    fmt.Println(messages)
}

```

With these changes, you:

- Create a names variable as a slice type holding three names.
- Pass the names variable as the argument to the Hellos function.

At the command line, change to the directory that contains hello/hello.go, then run hello.go to confirm that the code works.
The output should be a string representation of the map associating names with messages, something like the following:

``` BASH
$ go run hello.go

map[Darrin:Hail, Darrin! Well met! Gladys:Hi, Gladys. Welcome! Samantha:Hail, Samantha! Well met!]
```

This topic introduced maps for representing name/value pairs. It also introduced the idea of [preserving backward compatibility](https://blog.golang.org/module-compatibility) by implementing a new function for new or changed functionality in a module. In the tutorial's next topic, you'll use built-in features to create a unit test for your code.

### Add a test

Go's built-in support for unit testing makes it easier to test as you go. Specifically, using naming conventions, Go's testing package, and the go test command, you can quickly write and execute tests.

In the greetings directory, create a file called `greetings_test.go` .

📓 Ending a file's name with `_test.go` tells the go test command that this file contains test functions.

In `greetings_test.go` , paste the following code and save the file.

``` Go
package greetings

import (
    "testing"
    "regexp"
)

// TestHelloName calls greetings.Hello with a name, checking
// for a valid return value.
func TestHelloName(t *testing.T) {
    name := "Gladys"
    want := regexp.MustCompile( `\b` +name+ `\b` )
    msg, err := Hello("Gladys")
    if !want.MatchString(msg) || err != nil {
        t.Fatalf( `Hello("Gladys") = %q, %v, want match for %#q, nil` , msg, err, want)
    }
}

// TestHelloEmpty calls greetings.Hello with an empty string,
// checking for an error.
func TestHelloEmpty(t *testing.T) {
    msg, err := Hello("")
    if msg != "" || err == nil {
        t.Fatalf( `Hello("") = %q, %v, want "", error` , msg, err)
    }
}
```

In this code, you:

- Implement test functions in the same package as the code you're testing.

- Create two test functions to test the greetings. Hello function. Test function names have the form TestName, where Name is specific to the test. Also, test functions take a pointer to the [testing package](https://golang.org/pkg/testing/)'s testing. T as a parameter. - You use this parameter's methods for reporting and logging from your test.

- Implement two tests:
  + TestHelloName calls the Hello function, passing a name value with which the function should be able to return a valid response message. If the call returns an error or an unexpected response message (one that doesn't include the name you passed in), you use the t parameter's [Fatalf](https://golang.org/pkg/testing/#T. Fatalf) method to print a message to the console and end execution.
  + TestHelloEmpty calls the Hello function with an empty string. This test is designed to confirm that your error handling works. If the call returns a non-empty string or no error, you use the t parameter's Fatalf method to print a message to the console and end execution.

At the command line in the greetings directory, run the [go test command](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Test_packages) to execute the test.

The go test command executes test functions (whose names begin with Test) in test files (whose names end with _test.go). You can add the -v flag to get verbose output that lists all of the tests and their results.

The tests should pass.

``` BASH
$ go test
PASS
ok      example.com/greetings   0.364s

$ go test -v
=== RUN   TestHelloName
--- PASS: TestHelloName (0.00s)
=== RUN   TestHelloEmpty
--- PASS: TestHelloEmpty (0.00s)
PASS
ok      example.com/greetings   0.372s
```

Break the `greetings.Hello` function to view a failing test.

The `TestHelloName` test function checks the return value for the name you specified as a `Hello` function parameter. To view a failing test result, change the `greetings.Hello` function so that it no longer includes the name.

In `greetings/greetings.go` , paste the following code in place of the Hello function. Note that the highlighted lines change the value that the function returns, as if the name argument had been accidentally removed.

``` Go
// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
func Hello(name string) (string, error) {
    // If no name was given, return an error with a message.
    if name == "" {
        return name, errors.New("empty name")
    }
    // Create a message using a random format.
    // message := fmt.Sprintf(randomFormat(), name)
    message := fmt.Sprint(randomFormat())
    return message, nil
}
```

At the command line in the greetings directory, run go test to execute the test.

This time, run go test without the -v flag. The output will include results for only the tests that failed, which can be useful when you have a lot of tests. The TestHelloName test should fail -- TestHelloEmpty still passes.

``` BASH
$ go test

--- FAIL: TestHelloName (0.00s)
    greetings_test.go:15: Hello("Gladys") = "Hail, %v! Well met!", <nil>, want match for `\bGladys\b` , nil
FAIL
exit status 1

FAIL    example.com/greetings   0.182s
```

This topic introduced Go's built-in support for unit testing.

### Compile and install the application

In the last section, you'll learn a new go command. While the go run command is a useful shortcut for compiling and running a single-file program, it doesn't generate a binary executable you can easily run again. If you want one of those, a good choice is to run the [go install](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Compile_and_install_packages_and_dependencies) command, which compiles your code and installs the resulting binary executable where you can run it.

At the command line, change to the directory that contains `hello/hello.go` .

Discover the Go install path, where the go command will install the current package.

``` BASH
go list -f '{{.Target}}'
```

Add the Go install directory to your system's shell path.

``` BASH
export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/your/install/directory
```

As an alternative, if you already have a directory like $HOME/bin in your shell path and you'd like to install your Go programs there, you can change the install target by setting the GOBIN variable using the [go env](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Print_Go_environment_information) command:

``` BASH
go env -w GOBIN=/path/to/your/bin
```

Once you've updated the shell path, run the go install command to compile and install the package.

``` BASH
go install
```

Run your application by simply typing its name.

## Tutorial: How to Write Go Code

### Introduction

This document demonstrates the development of a simple Go package inside a module and introduces the go tool, the standard way to fetch, build, and install Go modules, packages, and commands.

Note: This document assumes that you are using Go 1.13 or later and the GO111MODULE environment variable is not set. If you are looking for the older, pre-modules version of this document, it is archived here.

### Code Organization

Go programs are organized into packages.

- A package is a collection of source files in the same directory that are compiled together. - Functions, types, variables, and constants defined in one source file are visible to all other source files within the same package.

A repository contains one or more modules.

- A module is a collection of related Go packages that are released together.
- A Go repository typically contains only one module, located at the root of the repository.
- A file named go.mod there declares the module path: the import path prefix for all packages within the module.
- The module contains the packages in the directory containing its go.mod file as well as subdirectories of that directory, up to the next subdirectory containing another go.mod file (if any).

**Note** that you don't need to publish your code to a remote repository before you can build it. A module can be defined locally without belonging to a repository. However, it's a good habit to organize your code as if you will publish it someday.

Each module's path not only serves as an import path prefix for its packages, but also indicates where the go command should look to download it.

- For example, in order to download the module `golang.org/x/tools`, the go command would consult the repository indicated by `https://golang.org/x/tools` (described more [here](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Relative_import_paths)).

An import path is a string used to import a package.

- A package's import path is its module path joined with its subdirectory within the module.
- For example, the module `github.com/google/go-cmp` contains a package in the directory `cmp/`.
- That package's import path is `github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp`.
- Packages in the standard library do not have a module path prefix.

### Your first program

To compile and run a simple program, first choose a module path (we'll use example.com/user/hello) and create a go.mod file that declares it:

``` BASH
$ mkdir hello # Alternatively, clone it if it already exists in version control.
$ cd hello
$ go mod init example.com/user/hello
go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/user/hello
$ cat go.mod
module example.com/user/hello

go 1.14
$
```

The first statement in a Go source file must be package name. Executable commands must always use package main.

Next, create a file named hello.go inside that directory containing the following Go code:

``` Go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Println("Hello, world.")
}
```

Now you can build and install that program with the go tool:

``` BASH
$ go install example.com/user/hello
$
```

This command builds the hello command, producing an executable binary. It then installs that binary as `$HOME/go/bin/hello` (or, under Windows, `%USERPROFILE%\go\bin\hello.exe` ).

- The install directory is controlled by the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` [environment variables](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Environment_variables).
- If `GOBIN` is set, binaries are installed to that directory. If `GOPATH` is set, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the first directory in the GOPATH list. Otherwise, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the default GOPATH ($HOME/go or %USERPROFILE%\go).
- You can use the go env command to portably set the default value for an environment variable for future go commands:

``` BASH
$ go env -w GOBIN=/somewhere/else/bin
$
```

- To unset a variable previously set by go env -w, use go env -u:

``` BASH
$ go env -u GOBIN
$
```

- Commands like go install apply within the context of the module containing the current working directory. If the working directory is not within the example.com/user/hello module, go install may fail.
- For convenience, go commands accept paths relative to the working directory, and default to the package in the current working directory if no other path is given. So in our working directory, the following commands are all equivalent:

``` BASH
$ go install example.com/user/hello
$ go install .
$ go install
```

- Next, let's run the program to ensure it works. For added convenience, we'll add the install directory to our PATH to make running binaries easy:

``` BASH
# Windows users should consult https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH
# for setting %PATH%.
$ export PATH=$PATH:$(dirname $(go list -f '{{.Target}}' .))
$ hello
Hello, world.
$
```

- If you're using a source control system, now would be a good time to initialize a repository, add the files, and commit your first change. Again, this step is optional: you do not need to use source control to write Go code.

``` BASH
$ git init
Initialized empty Git repository in /home/user/hello/.git/
$ git add go.mod hello.go
$ git commit -m "initial commit"
[master (root-commit) 0b4507d] initial commit
 1 file changed, 7 insertion(+)
 create mode 100644 go.mod hello.go
$
```

- The go command locates the repository containing a given module path by requesting a corresponding HTTPS URL and reading metadata embedded in the HTML response (see [go help importpath](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Remote_import_paths)).
- Many hosting services already provide that metadata for repositories containing Go code, so the easiest way to make your module available for others to use is usually to make its module path match the URL for the repository.

#### Importing packages from your module

Let's write a `morestrings` package and use it from the hello program. First, create a directory for the package named `$HOME/hello/morestrings` , and then a file named `reverse.go` in that directory with the following contents:

``` Go
// Package morestrings implements additional functions to manipulate UTF-8
// encoded strings, beyond what is provided in the standard "strings" package.
package morestrings

// ReverseRunes returns its argument string reversed rune-wise left to right.
func ReverseRunes(s string) string {
	r := []rune(s)
	for i, j := 0, len(r)-1; i < len(r)/2; i, j = i+1, j-1 {
		r[i], r[j] = r[j], r[i]
	}
	return string(r)
}
```

- Because our ReverseRunes function begins with an upper-case letter, it is [exported](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Exported_identifiers), and can be used in other packages that import our morestrings package.
- Let's test that the package compiles with go build:

``` BASH
$ cd $HOME/hello/morestrings
$ go build
$
```

- This won't produce an output file. Instead it saves the compiled package in the local build cache.
- After confirming that the morestrings package builds, let's use it from the hello program. To do so, modify your original $HOME/hello/hello.go to use the morestrings package:

``` Go

package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"example.com/user/hello/morestrings"
)

func main() {
	fmt.Println(morestrings.ReverseRunes("!oG ,olleH"))
}
```

- Install the hello program:

``` BASH
$ go install example.com/user/hello
```

- Running the new version of the program, you should see a new, reversed message:

``` BASH
$ hello
Hello, Go!
```

#### Importing packages from remote modules

An import path can describe how to obtain the package source code using a revision control system such as Git or Mercurial. The go tool uses this property to automatically fetch packages from remote repositories. For instance, to use github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp in your program:

``` Go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"example.com/user/hello/morestrings"
	"github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp"
)

func main() {
	fmt.Println(morestrings.ReverseRunes("!oG ,olleH"))
	fmt.Println(cmp.Diff("Hello World", "Hello Go"))
}
```

- When you run commands like go install, go build, or go run, the go command will automatically download the remote module and record its version in your `go.mod` file:

``` Go
$ go install example.com/user/hello
go: finding module for package github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp
go: downloading github.com/google/go-cmp v0.4.0
go: found github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp in github.com/google/go-cmp v0.4.0
$ hello
Hello, Go!
  string(
- 	"Hello World",
+ 	"Hello Go",
  )
$ cat go.mod
module example.com/user/hello

go 1.14

require github.com/google/go-cmp v0.4.0
$
```

- Module dependencies are automatically downloaded to the pkg/mod subdirectory of the directory indicated by the GOPATH environment variable.
- The downloaded contents for a given version of a module are shared among all other modules that require that version, so the go command marks those files and directories as read-only.
- To remove all downloaded modules, you can pass the -modcache flag to go clean:

``` BASH
go clean -modcache
$
```


### Testing

### What's next

### Getting Help

## References

- [How To Install Go and Set Up a Local Programming Environment on macOS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-go-and-set-up-a-local-programming-environment-on-macos)
- [Call code in an external package](https://golang.org/doc/tutorial/getting-started#call)

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you **would** like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
